10 TERENCE

my interest most at heart, my own father, whenever ’
Ι think of his return l Had Ι not been thoughtleSS, Ι
should have been looking forward to his arrival in the
proper spirit.

Phaedria. What 's the matter?

Antipho. Do you ask, you who are my accomplice
in so bold a deed? Oh, that it had never come into
Phormio's head to advise me as he did, and that he
had not urged me (though Ι did n't need much urg-
ing) to that act which was the beginning of all my
troubles! Suppose 1 had not won her3 Ι should have
suffered for the next few days, but Ι should n’t have
been racked by this daily anxiety—

Phaedoia. Oh, doubtlessl

Antipho. Expeeting my father to come any day,
and put an end to my married life.

Phaedria. Other people fret because they see too
little of those they love 3 you complain because you
see too much of her. You have a surfeit of love,
Antipho. But, as a matter of fact, this life of yours
is one to be desired and longed for. So help me,
Heaven, Ι should be ready to lay down my life, if I
might enjoy my love as long as you have yours. Just
think how Ι am suffering from want, while you are
revelling in plenty3 to say nothing of the fact that
you have, without any expense, won a well-born, well-
bred wife3 that you have, just as you wished, been
married publicly, and without any scandal. You would
be a happy man if there were not one thing wanting
—the temperament to bear your good fortune con-
tentedly. If you had to deal with the slave—trader
that Ι have, you would understand. But nearly all
men’s dispositions are the same3 we are always dis-
contented with our lot.

