MUTINY OF THE PANNONIAN LEGIONS 423

orders they were put to death ; according to some
writers, in his own tent, and there buried3 according
to others, their bodies were thrown over the entrench-
ments, a spectacle for public view.

Diligent search was made for the most active incen-
diaries. Some were found roving on the outside of
the lines, and were instantly cut off by the centurions
or the praetorian soldiers. Others were delivered up to
justice by their respective companies, as an earnest of
their own conversion. The rigor of the winter, which
set in earlier than usual, added to the afflietions of the
army. Heavy rains ensued‚ and fell with such violence
that the men could not venture from their tents. Το
meet in parties, and converse with their comrades, was
impossible. The colors, borne down by torrents that
rushed through the camp, were with difficulty secured.
Superstition still continued to fill the mind with ter-
ror. In everything that happened imagination saw
the anger of the gods ε it was not without reason that
the planets suffered an eclipse, and storms and tem-
pests burst from the angry elements3 the guilt of the
army was the cause of all. To avert impending ven-
geance, the only expedient was to depart at once from
an inauspicious camp, and by due atonement expiate
their past offenses in their winter quarters. In this
persuasion the eighth legion departed3 the fifteenth
followed. The ninth reniained behind, declaring aloud
that they would wait for orders from Tiberius, but
they soon saw themselves deser-ted, and therefore
struck their tents, willing to do by choice what in a
little time would be an act of necessity. Peace and
good order being thus restored, Drusus, deeming it
unnecessary to wait for the return of the deputies,
immediately set out for Rome.

