352 LJVY

is always indulged with the privilege of rendering the
origin of cities more venerable by intermixing divine
with human agency3 and if any nation may claim the
privilege of being allowed to consider its origin as
sacred, and to attribute it to the operations of the
gods, surely the Roman people, who rank so high in
military fame, may well expect that, while they choose
to represent Mars as their own parent and that of
their founder, the other nations of the world may ac-
quiesce in this, with the same deference with which
they acknowledge their sovereignty. But what de-
gree of attention or credit may be given to these and
similar matters I shall not consider as very mate·
rial. To the following considerations I wish every one
seriously and earnestly to attend, — by what kind of
men, and by what sort of conduct, in peace and war,
the empire has been both acquired and extended:
then, as discipline gradually declined, let him follow
in his thoughts the structure of ancient moraIS, at
first, as it were, leaning aside, then sinking farther
and farther, then beginning to fall precipitate, until
he arrives at the present times, when our vices have
attained to such a height of enormity, that we can no
longer endure either the burden of them or the sharp-
ness of the necessary remedies. This is the great ad-
vantage to be derived from the study of history 3 in·
deed the only one which can make it answer any pro-
fitable and salutary purpose3 for being abundantly
furnished with clear and distinct examples of every
kind of conduct, we may select for ourselves and for
the state to which we belong such as are worthy of
imitation3 and carefully noting such as, being dis·
honorable in their principles, are equally so in their
effectas, learn to avoid them. Now, either partiality to

