TO TA CITUS 457

own weight and spread out laterally. At times it
looked white, and at other times dirty and spotted,
according to the quantity of earth and cinders that
were shot up.

Το a man of my uncle's learning, the phenomenon
appeared one of great importance, which deserved a
close study. He ordered a Liburnian galley to be got
ready, and offered to take me with him, if I desired
to accompany him, but I replied that I preferred to
go on with my studies, and it so happened that he
assigned me some writing to do. He was just leaving
the house when he received a written message from
Rectina, the wife of Tascus, who was terrified at the
peril threatening her, —for her villa lay just beneath
the mountain, and there were no means of escape save
by shipboard, —begging him to save her from her
perilous position. So he changed his plan and car-
ried out with the greatest fortitude the ideas which
had occurred to him as a student.

He had the galleys launched and went on board
himself, in the hope of succoring, not only Rectina,
but many others, for there were a number of people
living along the shore, owing to its delightful situa-
tion. He hastened, therefore, towards the place whence
others were flying, and steering a direct course, kept
the helm straight for the point of danger, so utterly
devoid of sear that every movement of the looming
portent and every change in its appearance he de-
scribed and had noted down by his secretary, as soon
as his eyes detected it. Already ashes were begin-
ning to fall upon the ships, hotter and in thicker
showers as they approached more nearly, with pumice-
stones and black flints, charred and cracked by the
heat of the flames, while their way was barred by the

