376 LIVY

to front, no room having been left for any evolutions,
the river on the one side and the line of infantry on
the other confining them, so that they could only push
directly forward3 at last, the horses being pressed
together in a crowd and stopped from advancing, the
riders‚ grappling man to man, dragged each other to
the ground. The contest was now maintained chiefly
on foot, but was more furious than lasting3 for the
Roman horsemen, unable to keep their stand, turned
their backs. When the fight between the cavalry was
almost decided, the infantry began to engage. At first
the Gauls and Spaniards maintained their ranks with-
out betraying any inferiority in strength or courage.
At length the Romans, by frequent and persevering
efforts, with their front regular and in compact order,
drove back a body which projected before the rest of
the line in form of a wedge, and which, being too
thin, consequently wanted strength; as these gave
ground, and retreated hastily and in disorder‚ they
pursued, and without slacking their charge, broke
the dismayed and shattered battalions3 at first, to
their centre line, and at length, meeting with no re-
sistance, they arrived at the reserved troops of the
Africam, which latter had been posted on both flanks
of the others, inclining backwards towards the rear,
while the centre, composed of Gauls and Spaniards,
jutted considerably forward. By the retreat of this
prominent part the front was first rendered even;
then by their proceeding still in the same direction,
a bending inward was at length formed in the middle,
on each side of which the Africans now formed wings 3
and the Romans incautiously rushing into the centre,
these flanked them on each side, and, by extending

