‚THE HISTORIAN’S PREFACE 351

endeavors have been exerted in transmitting to pos-
terity the achievements of the greatest people in the
world3 and if, amid such a multitude of writers, my
name should not emerge from obscurity‚ I shall con-
sole myself by attributing it to the eminent merit of
those who stand in my way in the pursuit of fame. It
may be further observed that such a subject must re-
quire a work of immense extent, as our researches must
be carried back through a space of more than seven
hundred years3 that the state has, from very small
beginnings‚ gradually increased to such a magnitude,
that it is now distressed by its own bulk3 and that
there is every reason to apprehend that the generality
of readers will receive but very little pleasure from
the accounts of its first origin or of the times imme-
diately succeeding‚ but will be impatient to arrive at
the period in which the powers of this overgrown
state have been long employed in working their own
destruction. On the other hand, this much will be
derived from my labor, that, so long at least as I shall
have my thoughts totally occupied in investigating the
transactions of such distant ages, without being em-
barrassed by any of those unpleasant considerations
in respect of later days, which, though they might not
have power to warp a writer’s mind from the truth‚
would yet be sufficient to create uneasiness, I shall
withdraw myself from the sight of the many evils to
which our eyes have been so long accustomed. As to
the relations which have been handed down of events
prior to the founding of the city, or to the circum-
stances that gave occasion to its being founded, and
which bear the semblance rather of poetic fictions‚
than of authentic rccords of history, —these‚ I have
no intention either to maintain or refute. Antiquity

