2 TERENCE

the choleric old man, the guileful courtesan, the jealous
wife, the shameless slave-trader, the thieving and insolent
cook. .
The Phormio is representative of the class. It bears the
name of the parasite, through whose intrigues the action
is carried on. Two brothers, Chremes and Demipho, had
gone abroad, leaving their sonS‚ Phaedria and Antipho re-
spectively, in the care of Geta, a slave. He, however,
instead of obeying the fathers’ instructions, proceeded to
abet the sons in their evil courses, and presently both of
them were entangled in love affairs of distressing complex-
ity. Phaedria fell desperately in love with a music girl,
Pamphila, who was owned by Dorio, a slave-trader, and for
whose release thirty minae ¹ were requisite ; while Antipho
married an orphan, Phanium by name, quieting her guar-
dian’s objections by collusion with Phormio, who summoned
him into court and charged him with being her next of kin,
and so, by Athenian law, under obligation to marry her. It
is at this point that the play opens. Phormio is confronted
by two problems: to reconcile Antipho’s father to the
marriage, and to get the thirty minae for Phaedria. In
the latter case he is successful through his own efforts3 in
the former, chance favors him. Demipho, on returning to
Athens, is very angry at what his son has done, and declares
that he will never recognize the marriage. After much
wrangling, Phormio agrees to take her off his hands, and
marry her himself, provided he be given thirty minae. The
money is forthcoming, and Phormio promptly uses it to
purchase the music girl for Phaedria. It then transpires
that Phanium, instead of being poor and unknown, is the
daughter of Chremes by a secret marriage, and there is no
further objection to her as a wife for Antipho. Chremes.
whose double life has been exposed, is not in a position to
treat Phaedria harshly, and so all ends happily.

Besides the Phormio, five other plays of Terence have

¹ About 5540.

