INTRODUCTION xvii

throughout. In Lucretius, the last pait of the fifth
book is the piece de resistam& in Virgil the sixth„⁴
book of the Αθηεὶςῖς 111 Cicero, for the orations the
{essssfflfiwffimn of the Poo Cluentio, for the philoso-

phical works a portion of the De Amicitia; in Livy,

a series of chapters dealing with the career of Han-
nibal from his operations in Spain to his death in
Bithynia. Where an author worked in several de-
partments, these are represented, so far as their re-
presentation has been found to be compatible with the
general plan of giving long selections. In the case
of Cicero s orations one of the politica] speeehes would
have been preferred, but the Pro Cluentio has been
substituted on account of the merit of the translation.

In a few instances‚ where the translator' s rendering
seems somewhat more literal than the purpose of the
book requires, changes have been made, for which the
editor is solely responsible. VVhere the original is in
verse, metrical translations have been regularly used,
the only exceptions being the Phormio, where the ver-
sion of the Roman Society of London has been drawn
upon, and parts of Lucretius, where Munro's transla-
tion has been given. Throughout the book the aim has
been to give the best translation, irrespective of the

· name or fame of the translator, and the fact that the

renderings of the famous classicists of the eighteenth
century have been very sparingly used is due to their
seeming to be inferior to the more modern work.

GORDON ‚JENNINGS LAING.
August 1, 1903.

