452 PLINY THE YOUNGER

tion and jotting down notes, so that I might have full
tablets to take home with me, even though my hands
were empty. You need not shrug your shoulders at
study under such conditione. Itis really surprising
how the mind is stimulated by bodily movement and
exercise. Ι find the most powerful incentive to
thought in having the woods all about me, in the soli-
tude and the silence which is observed in hunting. So
when next you go hunting, take my advice and carry
your writing tablets with you as well as your luncheon
basket and your flask. You will find that Minerva
loves to wander on the mountains quite as much as
Diana. Farewell.

TO SOSIUS SENECIO
(L, 13.)

THIS year has brought us a fine crop of poets: right
through April hardly a day passed without some reci-
tall or other. 1 am delighted that literature is so
flourishing and that men are giving such open proofs
of hrains, even though audiences are found so slow in
coming together. People as a rule lounge in the
squares and waste the time in gossip when they should
be listening to the recital. They get some one to come
and tell them whether the reeiter has entered the hall
yet, whether he has got through his introduction‚ or
whether he has nearly reached the end of his reading.
Not until then do they enter the room, and even then
they come in slowly and languidly. Nor do they sit
it out3 no, before the close of the recita] they slip
away, some sidling out so as not to attract attention,

¹ The public recitatione were one of the features of literary life in
Rome under the empire.

